README.md, before:

# react-native-flipper-databases

> Flipper Databases plugin for React Native

[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](LICENSE) [![Build & Test](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/workflows/Build%20&%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/actions) [![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/context:javascript) [![Github Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/issues)

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/react-native-flipper-databases) [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/react-native-flipper-databases)

This [React Native](https://reactnative.dev) plugin allows browsing popular React Native databases using [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com) built-in Databases plugin.

![screenshot.jpeg](images/screenshot.jpeg)

## Installation

```sh
yarn add -D react-native-flipper react-native-flipper-databases
```

## Setup

### iOS

No particular setup is required on iOS.

### Android

Since Android already provide a built-in Databases plugin (see official docs [here](https://fbflipper.com/docs/features/databases-plugin) for more details) in order to avoid conflicts with `react-native-flipper-databases` it must be disabled.

Edit `ReactNativeFlipper.java` file under `android/app/src/debug/java/<your-app-package>` like this

```java
...

import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.crashreporter.CrashReporterPlugin;
// import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.databases.DatabasesFlipperPlugin; // <- Exclude to avoid plugin conflicts
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.fresco.FrescoFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.inspector.DescriptorMapping;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.inspector.InspectorFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.network.FlipperOkhttpInterceptor;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.network.NetworkFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.react.ReactFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.sharedpreferences.SharedPreferencesFlipperPlugin;
...

  public static void initializeFlipper(Context context, ReactInstanceManager reactInstanceManager) {
    if (FlipperUtils.shouldEnableFlipper(context)) {
      final FlipperClient client = AndroidFlipperClient.getInstance(context);

      client.addPlugin(new InspectorFlipperPlugin(context, DescriptorMapping.withDefaults()));
      client.addPlugin(new ReactFlipperPlugin());
      // client.addPlugin(new DatabasesFlipperPlugin(context)); // <- Exclude to avoid plugin conflicts
      client.addPlugin(new SharedPreferencesFlipperPlugin(context));
      client.addPlugin(CrashReporterPlugin.getInstance());
...
```

See [facebook/flipper#1628](https://github.com/facebook/flipper/issues/1628) for more details.

## Usage

### [WatermelonDB](https://nozbe.github.io/WatermelonDB/)

#### Compatibility

| WatermelonDB Version | Use Version |
| -------------------- | ----------- |
| >=0.24.0             | 2.x         |
| <0.24.0              | 1.x         |


#### Setup

Attach a WatermelonDB database:

```js
// ...

/// ReactNativeFlipperDatabases - START

if (__DEV__) {
  // Import connectDatabases function and required DBDrivers
  const {
    connectDatabases,
    WatermelonDB,
  } = require('react-native-flipper-databases');

  connectDatabases([
    new WatermelonDB(database), // Pass in database definition
  ]);
}

/// ReactNativeFlipperDatabases - END

// ...
```

### [MongoDB Realm](https://docs.mongodb.com/realm/sdk/react-native/)

#### Setup

Attach an open Realm:

```js
// ...

const realm = await Realm.open(config);

/// FlipperDatabasesPlugin - START

if (__DEV__) {
  // Import connectDatabases function and required DBDrivers
  const {
    connectDatabases,
    RealmDB,
  } = require('react-native-flipper-databases');

  connectDatabases([
    new RealmDB('Realm', realm), // Pass in a realm name and an open realm reference
  ]);
}

/// FlipperDatabasesPlugin - END

// ...
```

## Contributing

See the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to contribute to the repository and the development workflow.

## License

MIT

---

Made with :sparkles: & :heart: by [Mattia Panzeri](https://github.com/panz3r) and [contributors](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/graphs/contributors)

If you found this project to be helpful, please consider buying me a coffee.

[![buy me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://buymeacoff.ee/4f18nT0Nk)

Commit message:

docs: add Expo setup instructions to README
Closes #196

README.md, after:

# react-native-flipper-databases

> Flipper Databases plugin for React Native

[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](LICENSE) [![Build & Test](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/workflows/Build%20&%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/actions) [![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/context:javascript) [![Github Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/issues)

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/react-native-flipper-databases) [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-flipper-databases.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/react-native-flipper-databases)

This [React Native](https://reactnative.dev) plugin allows browsing popular React Native databases using [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com) built-in Databases plugin.

![screenshot.jpeg](images/screenshot.jpeg)

## Installation

```sh
yarn add -D react-native-flipper react-native-flipper-databases
```

## Setup

### iOS

No particular setup is required on iOS.

### Android

Since Android already provide a built-in Databases plugin (see official docs [here](https://fbflipper.com/docs/features/databases-plugin) for more details) in order to avoid conflicts with `react-native-flipper-databases` it must be disabled.

Edit `ReactNativeFlipper.java` file under `android/app/src/debug/java/<your-app-package>` like this

```java
...

import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.crashreporter.CrashReporterPlugin;
// import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.databases.DatabasesFlipperPlugin; // <- Exclude to avoid plugin conflicts
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.fresco.FrescoFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.inspector.DescriptorMapping;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.inspector.InspectorFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.network.FlipperOkhttpInterceptor;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.network.NetworkFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.react.ReactFlipperPlugin;
import com.facebook.flipper.plugins.sharedpreferences.SharedPreferencesFlipperPlugin;
...

  public static void initializeFlipper(Context context, ReactInstanceManager reactInstanceManager) {
    if (FlipperUtils.shouldEnableFlipper(context)) {
      final FlipperClient client = AndroidFlipperClient.getInstance(context);

      client.addPlugin(new InspectorFlipperPlugin(context, DescriptorMapping.withDefaults()));
      client.addPlugin(new ReactFlipperPlugin());
      // client.addPlugin(new DatabasesFlipperPlugin(context)); // <- Exclude to avoid plugin conflicts
      client.addPlugin(new SharedPreferencesFlipperPlugin(context));
      client.addPlugin(CrashReporterPlugin.getInstance());
...
```

See [facebook/flipper#1628](https://github.com/facebook/flipper/issues/1628) for more details.

### Expo

When sticking to a managed [Expo](https://expo.dev/) project, it's impossible to make the necessary modifications to the `ReactNativeFlipper.java` file.

[@liamdawson](https://github.com/liamdawson) wrote a basic plugin to automate those changes, which will ensure Expo prebuild and builds via EAS will disable the integrated Databases plugin on Android.

See [@liamdawson/disable-react-native-flipper-databases-expo-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@liamdawson/disable-react-native-flipper-databases-expo-plugin) for more info.


## Usage

### [WatermelonDB](https://nozbe.github.io/WatermelonDB/)

#### Compatibility

| WatermelonDB Version | Use Version |
| -------------------- | ----------- |
| >=0.24.0             | 2.x         |
| <0.24.0              | 1.x         |


#### Setup

Attach a WatermelonDB database:

```js
// ...

/// ReactNativeFlipperDatabases - START

if (__DEV__) {
  // Import connectDatabases function and required DBDrivers
  const {
    connectDatabases,
    WatermelonDB,
  } = require('react-native-flipper-databases');

  connectDatabases([
    new WatermelonDB(database), // Pass in database definition
  ]);
}

/// ReactNativeFlipperDatabases - END

// ...
```

### [MongoDB Realm](https://docs.mongodb.com/realm/sdk/react-native/)

#### Setup

Attach an open Realm:

```js
// ...

const realm = await Realm.open(config);

/// FlipperDatabasesPlugin - START

if (__DEV__) {
  // Import connectDatabases function and required DBDrivers
  const {
    connectDatabases,
    RealmDB,
  } = require('react-native-flipper-databases');

  connectDatabases([
    new RealmDB('Realm', realm), // Pass in a realm name and an open realm reference
  ]);
}

/// FlipperDatabasesPlugin - END

// ...
```

## Contributing

See the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to contribute to the repository and the development workflow.

## License

MIT

---

Made with :sparkles: & :heart: by [Mattia Panzeri](https://github.com/panz3r) and [contributors](https://github.com/panz3r/react-native-flipper-databases/graphs/contributors)

If you found this project to be helpful, please consider buying me a coffee.

[![buy me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://buymeacoff.ee/4f18nT0Nk)
